Sure! Here is an example of how a Naive Bayes classifier might be used to predict the likelihood that a patient has a certain disease based on certain symptoms:

First, we gather a dataset of patients, including information about their symptoms and whether or not they have the disease in question.

Next, we calculate the prior probability of each class (having the disease or not having the disease) based on the number of patients in each class in the dataset.

For each class, we calculate the likelihood of each symptom occurring given the class. For example, if the data shows that a certain symptom is more common in patients who have the disease, the likelihood of that symptom occurring will be higher for the "disease" class.

Finally, we use the Bayes theorem to calculate the posterior probability of each class for a given patient, based on their symptoms. The class with the highest posterior probability is the one that the Naive Bayes classifier will predict for the patient.

For example, let's say we have a patient who exhibits the following symptoms: fever, cough, and shortness of breath. Based on the data we have, the prior probability of the "disease" class is 0.5 (i.e., 50% of the patients in the dataset have the disease). The likelihood of a fever occurring given the "disease" class is 0.7, the likelihood of a cough occurring given the "disease" class is 0.6, and the likelihood of shortness of breath occurring given the "disease" class is 0.9. Using the Bayes theorem, we can calculate the posterior probability of the "disease" class for this patient as 0.75.

On the other hand, the prior probability of the "no disease" class is 0.5, and the likelihood of a fever occurring given the "no disease" class is 0.3, the likelihood of a cough occurring given the "no disease" class is 0.4, and the likelihood of shortness of breath occurring given the "no disease" class is 0.1. Using the Bayes theorem, we can calculate the posterior probability of the "no disease" class for this patient as 0.25.

Since the posterior probability of the "disease" class is higher, the Naive Bayes classifier will predict that the patient has the disease